# The American electoral system and its adaptation to the European Union

## About the paper
This paper is the first step in my research into electoral and apportionment systems. I wrote my work under the supervision of Pál Burai, PhD, associate professor of the Institute of Mathematics at the Budapest University of Technology and Economics Faculty of Natural Sciences.

### Abstract
The goal of this work is the analysis of the American apportionment system. The distribution of the number of electoral seats generated by different methods involving geometric, arithmetic and harmonic means are compared, and these methods to the European Parliament adapted. The data is generated by a Python program. For the examination of the distribution of the number of seats generated by different methods both real and artificial data are used.

### Presentations
My work was presented at two conferences.

#### Budapest University of Technology and Economics
My first presentation was at the students' scientific conference of the Budapest Technology and Economics Faculty of Natural Sciences. There, I competed against fellow high school students who presented their findings in a wide range of topics in the fields of mathematics and physics.
The conference was held on ??? in Building H of the Budapest University of Technology and Economics.

At the conference, I received positive reviews of my paper and my presentation. The jury awarded me second place and offered me the opportionity to present my findings at the national conference.

#### National Conference of Students' Research Societies
The second presentation was held at the University of Pannonia in Veszprém, Hungary. This university was the host of the 36th National Conference of Students' Research Societies in the Physics, Earth Sciences and Mathematics section. I was assigned to the Operations research subsection. I was the only high school student competing in the section, where the other contestants were mainly graduate students. The jury gave me encouraging comments about continuing my research.

## About the author

## The future of the research
This website is about the paper that I originally presented at the National Conference of Students' Research Societies, however I wish to continue my research beyond my findings in this paper. Currently, I have two main directions that I would like to continue my research in.

The first is a deeper analysis of why some methods benefit smaller states while others benefit larger states. I wish to find an exact mathematical formula that we can use to exactly define what a 'small' and a 'large' state is.

The second is looking at how we can include more factors in apportionment. In the apportionment methods that I discussed in my paper, the sole factor that determines how many representatives a state has is its population. Using the Bajraktarevic mean, I would like to explore how we can add further factors (such as GDP[Gross Domestic Product], HDI[Human Development Index]) that determine the number of representatives a state has. I believe that this topic is especially relevent in Europe, where the enlargement of the Union poses new political questions regarding apportionment, and the inclusion of other factors when assigning the seats to each country may help solve these issues.